Internal Network Security Review
We already observed that an attacker had initial access to the internal network.
From a defensive standpoint, the next step is to monitor which ports and services are exposed. This helps us understand how credentials might be abused. Blind credential attempts waste time, but proper network reconnaissance reveals exploitable targets. Defenders should ensure that efforts are directed toward reducing exposure.

🔍 Network Reconnaissance
nmap -sS -p- 10.130.187.188

Result:
88 – Kerberos
135, 139 – RPC
389 – LDAP
445 – SMB
636 – LDAPSSL
3389 – RDP
👉 Defensive takeaway: These ports are high‑value targets. Restrict unnecessary exposure, enforce strong authentication, and monitor for unusual traffic.

🛡️ Service Fingerprinting
nmap -sS -sC -sV -p 88,135,139,389,445,636,3389 10.130.187.188

The fingerprint revealed that the system was a Domain Controller.
Normally, workstations don’t require RDP access — only privileged admin groups should have it.
👉 Defensive takeaway: Disable RDP where not needed. Limit access strictly to administrative tiers.

🚫 SMB Signing
SMB signing was enabled and enforced. This is good practice because it prevents:
NTLM Relay Attacks
LLMNR/NBNS Poisoning
SMB Session Hijacking
Man‑in‑the‑Middle Data Manipulation
👉 Defensive takeaway: Always enforce SMB signing to block these common lateral movement techniques.

🔑 Initial Access (Administrative Protocols)
Attackers attempted login with user j.smith.
nxc smb 10.130.187.188 -u "ctf.local\j.smith" -p "JSmith@IT2024"
xfreerdp /v:10.130.187.188 /u:"ctf.local\j.smith" /p:"JSmith@IT2024"

The account had no admin rights.
👉 Defensive takeaway: Monitor RDP logins. Ensure non‑admin accounts cannot log in remotely to sensitive systems.

📂 Host/Domain Enumeration
Attackers enumerated domain users and discovered files like Database.kdbx (KeePass password manager).
👉 Defensive takeaway: Sensitive files should never be stored in user home directories. Apply file access controls and audit for password manager databases.

⬆️ Privilege Escalation
Password spraying attempts eventually revealed r.williams with elevated privileges.

👉 Defensive takeaway:
Implement account lockout policies.
Monitor for password spraying attempts.
Enforce MFA for privileged accounts.

🧾 Kerberos Ticket Abuse
Attackers tried pass‑the‑ticket with expired tickets.
👉 Defensive takeaway: Regularly purge stale tickets and monitor for unusual Kerberos activity.


🕸️ BloodHound Analysis
Attackers mapped domain relationships and found Outbound Object Control where r.williams had AddAllowedToAct privilege over the Domain Controller.
👉 Defensive takeaway:
Audit delegation rights.
Remove unnecessary AllowedToActOnBehalfOfOtherIdentity privileges.
Monitor for resource‑based constrained delegation abuse.

⚠️ Final Compromise
Through Resource‑Based Constrained Delegation (RBCD), attackers impersonated the Administrator and gained full Domain Controller access.
👉 Defensive takeaway:
Regularly audit delegation and constrained delegation settings.
Apply tiered admin models.
Monitor for unusual computer account creation and delegation changes.

✅ Defender’s Lessons
Limit exposed services (especially RDP, SMB, LDAP, winrm, FTP).
Enforce SMB signing and Kerberos hygiene.
Audit domain delegation rights.
Monitor for password spraying and privilege escalation attempts.
Protect sensitive files (like KeePass databases) from being stored in user directories.
